# Introduction To " Blockchain Technology "
## What is a Blockchain Technology ?
- Blockchain is the part  of Digital CryptoCurrency BitCoin. The blockchain is a distributed database of records of all transactions or digital event that have been executed and shared among participating parties. It contains every single record of each transaction.
## How Blockchain Technology works?
- One of the famous example of Blockchain is Bitcoin. The bitcoin is a cryptocurrency and is used to exchange digital assets online. Bitcoin uses cryptographic proof instead of third-party trust for two parties to execute transactions over the internet. Each transaction protects through digital signature.
- A blockchain network, consisting of a decentralized computer network, is used to produce and preserve a record of every online transaction. This record is in blocks, each containing a unique verification code. The entire network maintains a copy of the blockchain ledger. If a transaction occurs online, the nodes verify it, record it in a block, and add it to the Blockchain’s end.
  With blockchain technology, each block contains a link to the previous block. It is what allows the blocks to form a chain. Changing a transaction in the blockchain network will generate an error. It is almost impossible to alter the data inside a blockchain without altering all subsequent blocks and the network consensus. A single entity with blockchain technology does not govern the ledger. Instead, every node on the network has a copy of the log. The records on the Blockchain are public and known to all members of the network.
### History Of Blockchain.
- 1991-2008: Creation Period of  Blockchain Technology
- Blockchain was first appeared in 2008. It was introduced by ‘Satoshi Nakamoto.’ In previous years this technology was not known much but in recent years it get hyped. Ofcourse you have seen that Mr.ELON MUSK  had also got interest in this technology So you can see the boom of this 'tech'.

## Disadvantages of current transaction system 

- Cash can only be used in low amount transaction locally.
- Huge waiting time in the processing of transactions.
- Need to third party for verification and execution of Transaction make the process complex.
- If the Central Server like Banks is compromised, whole System is affected including the participants.
- Organization doing validation charge high process thus making the process expensive.

 ## Advantages of Blockchain Transaction System 

- Time-saving: No central Authority verification needed for settlements making the process faster and cheaper.
- Cost-saving: A Blockchain network reduces expenses in several ways. No need for third-party verification. Participants can share assets directly. Intermediaries are reduced. Transaction efforts are minimized as every participant has a copy of shared ledger.
- Tighter security: No one can temper with Blockchain Data as it shared among millions of Participant. The system is safe against cybercrimes and Fraud.



